# Types of machine learning algorithmns


## Supervised Learning
Supervised learning applies to scenarios where the data is all labeled. That would mean that the training set that you provide to the algorithm is followed by each line of data's desired result

## Unsupervised Learning
In unsupervised learning, we basically give our algorithm a lot of unlabeled data and ask it to find patterns in the data. An example of a place where this is common is in clustering algorithms 

## Semi-supervised Learning
In semi-supervised learning, the algorithm is provided a dataset with unlabeled and labeled data. This is often gonna result in using supervised and unsupervised learning algorithms together

## Self-supervised Learning
A self-supervised learning algorithm takes in an unlabeled dataset, just like an unsupervised learning algorithm, and comes back with a labeled dataset. This learning technique is often used for regression and classification tasks

## Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning is an algorithm that uses an agent to make actions. Those actions will either be compensated positively or negatively from which the agent will learn from

<br><br>

# Batch and online learning

## Batch Learning
Batch learning, aka offline learning, means that the algorithm you are training will be trained on a lot of data at once and that it will not be updated as it goes. This means that the model can become outdated to new data if not re-trained regularly, which depending on the case, can be ineffective and costly to do if it can even be done.

## Online Learning
Online learning means that the algorithm will be constantly fed new data on the fly and that it will be kept up to date. Online learning can also allow for incremental learning, which means loading the data bit by bit until you used up all the data (for cases where storage is an issue). But because the algorithm is constantly updated with new data, this can mean that it can forget older data or become vulnerable to bad data depending on the learning rate associated with the algorithm

<br><br>

# Instance-Based and Model-Based learning

## Instance-Based Learning
Instance-Based learning is when the algorithms learns the provided examples by heart and can compare them to new examples to come to a conclusion. For example, comparing a known spam email with an email that was just received

## Model-Based Learning
Model-Based learning is when the algorithms learns from the provided examples and creates a model that can be used to generalize off its provided data to assign a result to a new piece of data.